Casmuser 3024 12 update raspberry upgrade docs to warn admins about uan can network outage (#1871)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: upgrade/1.2/Stage_0_Prerequisites.md

### Stages

- [Stage 0.1 - Prepare assets](#prepare-assets)
- [Stage 0.2 - Plan and coordinate network upgrade](#plan-and-coordinate-network-upgrade)
- [Stage 0.3 - Update SLS](#update-sls)

> - [Stage 0.4 - Upgrade Management Network](#update-management-network)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Stage 0.4 - Upgrade management network](#update-management-network)
```

> - [Stage 0.5 - Prerequisites Check](#prerequisites-check)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Stage 0.5 - Prerequisites check](#prerequisites-check)
```

> - [Stage 0.6 - Backup Workload Manager Data](#backup_workload_manager)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Stage 0.6 - Backup workload manager data](#backup_workload_manager)
```

   ncn-m001# /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/1.2/scripts/upgrade/prepare-assets.sh --csm-version ${CSM_RELEASE} --tarball-file "${CSM_TAR_PATH}"
   ```

<a name="plan-and-coordinate-network-upgrade"></a>

## Stage 0.2 - Plan and coordinate network upgrade

### Abstract (Stage 0.2)

Prior to CSM 1.2, the single Customer Access Network (CAN) carried both the administrative network traffic and the user network
traffic. CSM 1.2 introduces bifurcated CAN (BICAN), which is designed to separate administrative network traffic and user network traffic.
With BICAN, the pre-1.2 CAN network is split into two separate networks:

1. Customer Management Network (CMN)

   This network allows only system administrative access from the customer site. The pre-1.2 CAN is renamed to CMN. By
   the end of the CSM 1.2 upgrade, all non-administrative access, such as from UANs, will be removed from CMN.

>    During the CSM 1.2 upgrade, UANs will retain their pre-1.2 CAN IPs in order to minimize disruption to UANs. However,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   During the CSM 1.2 upgrade, UANs will retain their pre-1.2 CAN IP addresses in order to minimize disruption to UANs. However,
```

   toward the end of the CSM 1.2 upgrade, UANs will stop registering themselves on CMN and will receive new IP addresses on the

>    CAN/CHN network below. This process is described in more detail in [UAN Migration](#uan-migration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   CAN/CHN network. This process is described in more detail in [UAN Migration](#uan-migration).
```

   Pivoting the pre-1.2 CAN to the new CMN allows administrative traffic (already on the pre-1.2 CAN) to remain as-is while
   moving standard user traffic to a new site-routable network (CAN / CHN).

1. Customer Access Network (CAN) / Customer High-speed Network (CHN)

   For user traffic only (e.g. users running and monitoring jobs), CSM 1.2 allows a choice of one of two networks:

      - Customer Access Network (CAN) \[Recommended\]: this is a new network (VLAN6 in switches) that runs over the management network. This
         network must not be confused with pre-1.2 CAN, which was a monolithic network that allowed both user and administrative
         traffic, was configured as VLAN7 in switches, and is now renamed to CMN. The new CAN allows only user traffic.

      - Customer High-speed Network (CHN) \[CSM 1.2 Tech Preview\]: this is a new network (VLAN5 in switches) that runs over the high-speed fabric.

>    You must only pick either the new CAN or CHN, but not both. Please note that CHN is a tech preview in CSM 1.2, and the new CAN is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Either the new CAN or CHN must be chosen, but not both. Note that the CHN is a technical preview in CSM 1.2, and the new CAN is
```

>    the recommended upgrade. The rest of the installation guide will provide you with options for configuring either the new CAN or CHN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the recommended upgrade. The rest of the installation guide provides options for configuring either the new CAN or CHN.
```

### UAN migration

Certain steps are taken in order to minimize disruption to UANs during the CSM 1.2 upgrade process. Please read these steps

> carefully and follow any recommendations and warnings to minimize disruptions to user activity.  Note that these steps apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
carefully and follow any recommendations and warnings to minimize disruptions to user activity. Note that these steps apply
```

to all types of application nodes and not just UANs -- the term "UAN" just happens to be more commonly used and understood when
referring to user activity.

1. During the upgrade, the switch `1.2 Preconfig` will not remove UAN ports from the CMN VLAN (the pre-1.2 CAN), allowing UANs

>    to retain their existing IPs during the CSM 1.2 upgrade process. Traffic to and from UANs will still flow through CMN, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to retain their existing IP addresses during the CSM 1.2 upgrade process. Traffic to and from UANs will still flow through CMN, but
```

   need to be disabled for UANs.

   (`ncn-m001#`) To disable CFS plays for UANs, you must remove CFS assignment for UANs by running the following command:

   ```bash
   export CRAY_FORMAT=json
   for xname in $(cray hsm state components list --role Application --subrole UAN --type node | jq -r .Components[].ID)
   do
      cray cfs components update --enabled false --desired-config "" $xname
   done
   ```

   > Note that the above command will disable CFS plays for UANs only. If you wish to disable CFS plays for all types of
   > application nodes (recommended), then remove the `--subrole UAN` portion in the snippet above.

1. UAN reboots must be avoided and is not a supported operation during CSM 1.2 upgrade. Rebooting a UAN during a CSM 1.2
   upgrade can re-enable CFS and ultimately lead to removing the CMN interface from UANs, disrupting UAN access for your users.
   As a system administrator, you must inform your users to avoid UAN reboots during the CSM 1.2 upgrade process.

   If, however, a UAN is rebooted, then you need to patch the file `roles/uan_interfaces/tasks/can-v2.yml` for your current

>    CSM release in the `vcs/cray/uan-config-management.git` repository and re-run the CFS Ansible play to bring back the

Author: Changed as suggested. Thanks.

   - name: Get Customer Access Network info from SLS
     local_action:
     module: uri
   -    url: "http://cray-sls/v1/search/networks?name={{ sls_can_name }}"
   +    url: "http://cray-sls/v1/search/networks?name=CMN"
        method: GET
        register: sls_can
   
   -- name: Get Customer Access Network CIDR from SLS, if network exists.
   -  # This assumes that the CAN network is _always_ the third item in the array. This makes the
   -  # implementation fragile. See CASMCMS-6714.
   -  set_fact:
   -    customer_access_network: "{{ sls_can.json[0].ExtraProperties.Subnets[2].CIDR }}"
   -  when: sls_can.status == 200
   -
   -- name: Get Customer Access Network Gateway from SLS, if network exists
   -  set_fact:
   -    customer_access_gateway: "{{ sls_can.json[0].ExtraProperties.Subnets[2].Gateway }}"
   -  when: sls_can.status == 200
   
   +- name: "Get {{ uan_user_access_cfg | upper }} CIDR from SLS, if network exists."
   +  set_fact:
   +    customer_access_network: "{{ item.CIDR }}"
   +    customer_access_gateway: "{{ item.Gateway }}"
   +  loop: "{{ sls_can.json[0].ExtraProperties.Subnets }}"
   +  when: item.FullName == "CMN Bootstrap DHCP Subnet"
   ```

> 1. Once the CSM 1.2 upgrade is complete, you may reboot the UANs for the new network configuration changes to take effect.

Author: Changed thanks
